and introduction to the book of Hosea. Hosea served as a prophet to the Ten Tribe Kingdom of Israel,
and his prophecies were directed mainly to that nation. His contemporaries Micah and Isaiah
served as prophets to the southern kingdom of Judah. Hosea began his service no later than 804 BCE
during the reign of King Jarabon II. His career as a prophet continued for about 60 years until
sometime after 745 BCE when he completed the book bearing his name. Hosea prophesied amid great
political turmoil. Four kings of Israel were assassinated during this period. The book of Hosea
has 14 chapters. Chapters 1 to 3 use Hosea's family life to dramatize Jehovah's dealings with Israel.
Jehovah tells Hosea to marry a woman who would later commit adultery repeatedly. Hosea
marries Gomer who becomes unfaithful to him. Hosea's marriage to Gomer pictures Jehovah's
marriage to Israel by means of the Mosaic law covenant. Gomer's unfaithful conduct pictures
Israel's betrayal of Jehovah by turning to the worship of false gods and forming political
alliances with pagan nations. Chapter 3 contains Jehovah's instructions to Hosea to
take back his unfaithful wife. This symbolizes Jehovah's willingness to show mercy to the Israelites
if they repent of their idolatry in Obey Jehovah. Hosea foretells that Israel will look
for Jehovah and for David their king. A prophecy ultimately fulfilled with Jesus as heavenly
king. Did you know the Northern 10 tribe Kingdom of Israel was at times called Ephraim
or Samaria. Ephraim was the dominant tribe of the Kingdom and Samaria was the Kingdom's
capital city. Chapters 4-13 contain judgments against unfaithful Ephraim. These were fulfilled
when Assyria overthrew the nation and its capital city Samaria. Chapter 14 contains a heartwarming
invitation to Israel to return to Jehovah who reassures the people of his mercy. As you study
the book of Hosea, note how Jehovah requires unhypercritical worship is merciful toward repentant
wrongdoers and is loyal to his promise of providing a heavenly king from the line of David.